Note for Users Upgrading to SpamAssassin 3.0
-----------------------------------------------

The SpamAssassin 2.6x release series was the last set of releases to
officially support perl versions earlier than perl 5.6.1.  If you are
using an earlier version of perl, you will need to upgrade before you
can use the 3.0.0 version of SpamAssassin.

SpamAssassin 3.0 has a significantly different API (Application Program
Interface) from the 2.x series of code.  This means that if you use
SpamAssassin through a third-party utility (milter, etc,) you need to
make sure you have an updated version which supports 3.0.

If you are using a UNIX machine with all database files on local disks,
and no sharing of those databases across NFS filesystems, you can use a
more efficient, but non-NFS-safe, locking mechanism.   Do this by adding
the line "lock_method flock" to the /etc/mail/spamassassin/local.cf file.
This is strongly recommended if you're not using NFS.

The --auto-whitelist and -a options for "spamd" and "spamassassin" to
turn on the auto-whitelist have been removed and replaced by the
"use_auto_whitelist" configuration option which is also now turned on by
default.

"spamd" now has a default max-children setting of 5; no more than 5 child
scanner processes will be run in parallel.  Previously, there was no
default limit unless you specified the "-m" switch when starting spamd.

Users of SpamAssassin versions earlier than 2.50 should note that
the default tagging behavior has changed.  If an incoming message is
tagged as spam, instead of modifying the original message, SpamAssassin
will create a new report message and attach the original message as a
message/rfc822 MIME part (ensuring the original message is completely
preserved and easier to recover).  If you do not want to modify the body
of incoming spam, use the "report_safe" option.  The "report_header"
and "defang_mime" options have been removed as a result.

Please note that the use of the following commandline parameters for
spamassassin and spamd have been deprecated and are now removed.  If you
currently use these flags, please remove them:

   in the 2.6x series: --add-from, --pipe, -F, -P, --stop-at-threshold, -S
   in the 3.0.x series: --auto-whitelist, -a

The following flags are deprecated and will be removed in a future major
release: --whitelist-factory, -M, --warning-from, -w, --log-to-mbox, -l.

SpamAssassin runs in "taint mode" by default for improved security.
Certain third-party modules, such as Razor v2, may be incompatible with
taint mode.  For Razor v2, you will need to be using v2.40 of razor-agents
or higher which allows taint mode by default.  Earlier versions which are
patched to allow taint mode may be used as well.

Finally, 2.6x deprecated the use of the "check_bayes_db" script, and it
is now no longer available.  Please see the sa-learn man/pod documentation
for more info.

Note for Users Upgrading from SpamAssassin 2.5x
-----------------------------------------------

Due to major reliability shortcomings in the database support libraries
other than DB_File, we now require that the DB_File module be installed to
use SpamAssassin's Bayes rules.

SpamAssassin will still work without DB_File installed, but the Bayes
support will be disabled.

If you install DB_File and wish to import old Bayes database data, each
user with a Bayes db should run "sa-learn --import" to copy old entries
from the other formats into a new DB_File file.

Due to the database library change, and the change to the database format
itself, you will want to do something like this when upgrading:

- stop running spamassassin/spamd (ie: you don't want it to be running
  during the upgrade)
- run "sa-learn --rebuild", this will sync your journal.  if you skip this
  step, any data from the journal will be lost when the DB is upgraded.
- install DB_File module if necessary
- upgrade SA to 2.6x
- if you were using another database module previously, run
  "sa-learn --import" to migrate the data into new DB_File files
- run "sa-learn --rebuild", this will cause the db format to be upgraded.
  if you want to make sure everything runs correctly, you can add the "-D"
  option.
- test the new database by running some sample mails through SpamAssassin,
  and/or at least running "sa-learn --dump" to make sure the data looks
  valid.
- start running spamassassin/spamd again

Obviously the steps will be different depending on your environment,
but you get the idea. :)

Note For Users Upgrading From SpamAssassin 2.3x or 2.4x
-------------------------------------------------------

SpamAssassin no longer includes code to handle local mail delivery, as it
was not reliable enough, compared to procmail.  So now, if you relied on
spamassassin to write the mail into your mail folder, you'll have to
change your setup to use procmail as detailed below.  If you used
spamassassin to filter your mail and then something else wrote it into a
folder for you, then you should be fine.

Support for versions of the optional Mail::Audit module is no longer
included.

The default mode of tagging (which used to be ***SPAM*** in the subject
line) no longer takes place.  Instead the message is rewritten.

