Return-Path: stockoftheweek1002@yahoo.com
Delivery-Date: Mon, 22 Jan 2001 23:59:08 +0000
Return-Path: <stockoftheweek1002@yahoo.com>
Delivered-To: jm@netnoteinc.com
Received: from mmc.kbu.ac.jp (mmc.kbu.ac.jp [202.223.193.110])
	by mail.netnoteinc.com (Postfix) with ESMTP id 1B48A1140BF
	for <jm@netnoteinc.com>; Mon, 22 Jan 2001 23:59:04 +0000 (Eire)
Received: from Nb3XeWY6P ([63.15.24.97]) by mmc.kbu.ac.jp
          (post.office MTA v2.0 0813 ID# 111-30959U110) with SMTP
          id AAY184; Tue, 23 Jan 2001 09:02:21 +0900
DATE: 22 Jan 01 5:57:18 PM
From: stockoftheweek1002@yahoo.com
Message-ID: <LaIwY6tPNDL>
Subject: Stock of the Week
To: undisclosed-recipients:;

INTERNATIONAL FORECASTER
intforcaster@excite.com
 
POWER TECHNOLOGY, INC.
SYMBOL:  PWTC (OTC-BB)
PWTC.NAP (Berlin Stock Exchange)   LOW/HIGH: $5/16 - $6.625
SHARES ISSUED  18,000,000   RECENT TRADING RANGE: $0.40-$1.30
SHARES IN FLOAT    8,000,000   LIABILITIES: NONE
  1000 West Bonanza Road, Las Vegas, Nevada 89106
  FAX: (702) 382-3240 * email: pwtc@powerpwtc.com 
http://finance.yahoo.com/q?s=PWTC.OB
 
 NEW POWER TECHNOLOGY BATTERY EXPECTED TO IMPACT 
BATTERY INDUSTRY

The Concept: To produce a new, environmentally friendly, more 
powerful, more efficient battery for commercial use in the electric 
automobile andother existing battery applications.
The Inventor: Internationally recognized inventor Alvin A. 
Snaper holdsseveral hundred patents, including the IBM 
Selectric Ball, an Apollo photo instrument for NASA, landing 
gear for Boeing, a Fluidic computer for Singer, a Fluidic 
Missile System for Rocketdyne, an electrostatic paint process
 for General Motors and now, the Power Technology Battery.
The Past:  Over the past three years, Mr. Snaper has been 
developing a battery to replace the environmentally 
lead acid battery used in most automobiles, trains, airplanes 
and marine craft, and to power electric vehicles more effectively.  
To succeed in the electric vehicle market, a battery needs lighter 
components and substantially increased power densities so the 
electric vehicle can compete with the internal combustion engine
 in performance and cost.  Batteries, a major component of the 
electric vehicle, are typically subject to low efficiencies and
 are an environmental hazard (they contain lead and acid).  
However, Mr. Snaper and his team have developed a superior 
battery with a unique electrode structure, made of a nontoxic 
alloy, which increases the electrochemically active surface 
area within the battery 1000 times and is light weight, produces 
more charge and recharges very quickly.  This technology also 
utilizes a safe, nontoxic electrolyte in place of acid.

The Present:  Power Technology, Inc. has applied for patent 
protection for the battery and has received the pending number.  
Meetings with commercial battery producers are slated during 
the summer of 2000 and first and second quarters of 2001 to 
demonstrate the product and discuss options for commercial 
production.
The Advantage: While Power Technology, Inc. is initially 
seeking to deliver an updated battery for the electric car, its unique 
product can immediately be adapted to the existing battery market place.  
The Power Technology battery can be used in boats, ships, and 
airplanes to reduce weight and increase power.  In automobiles, the 
toxic lead acid battery can be eliminated.

The Future:
 Power Technology, Inc. will form industry alliances with commercial
battery manufacturers to deliver its battery to the marketplace
efficiently, without the cost of developing its own factories and
marketing connections.

Power Technology, Inc. will organize alliances with producers of
electric vehicles, aircraft, water craft, trains and heavy trucks to
test this product in all types of conditions and prove its superiority
to industry and the public.  There is also a tremendous market
application for bicycles.

 Power Technology, Inc. will work to deliver this and other
environmentally friendly products to the market place.  Other products
in development include a new air conditioner unit for automobiles that
eliminates the use of freon, and an alloy sensor that generates its own
voltage continuously.  The Company is conducting research and
development on its patented alloy sensor technology.  The proprietary
alloy gives off a small (1.5v) electrical charge when it comes in
contact with moisture.  The Company has been developing this technology 
for use as a permanently installed water detection device to check for the presence of water in storage tanks, fuel tanks and other systems. The alloy sensor can be mounted on a valve socket, along with a meter. A plug inserted into the valve permits quick and easy meter readings.

This technology also has applications in the roofing and marine
industries and hydro applications, and it can be used as a low-voltage
battery.

Patents are our future.  Power Technology, Inc. through the sale of
licences for the use of its technologies, will establish a highly
efficient, financially sound, commercially viable corporation that will
work for the benefit of its shareholders.

BATTERY INNOVATION    by     POWER TECHNOLOGY, INC.
Power Technology’s years of research and development have produced 
a revolutionary internal battery structure which, when coupled with the 
correct application of nickel and iron, will:
  1.  Require one-half (1/2) the size of a lead-acid battery to produce
an equal number of watt hours;
  2.   Require one-half (1/2) the charging time of a lead-acid battery
to produce an equal number of watt hours;
  3.  Weigh less than one-half (1/2) the weight of a comparably sized
lead acid battery;
  4.  Have two to two and one-half (2-2.5) times the power density of a
comparably sized lead-acid battery (50-70 watt hours per Kg versus 20-35
lead-acid);
  5.  Be adaptable to varied dimensions and configurations for use in
electric bicycles, automobiles and a range of other applications;
  6.  Have a life of two to three times that of a lead-acid battery;
  7.  Be capable of accepting low level ultrasonic vibration to enhance
conductivity, whereas solid plate lead-acid batteries typically cannot;
  8.  Not require thermal management packages for high-output uses such
as electric vehicles;
  9.  Cost approximately the same to produce as a lead-acid battery;
 10.  Retail for ten to twenty percent (10-20%) more than their
lead-acid counterpart, while providing double the range and longevity;
and
 11.  Improve the use, ease and efficiency of any battery powered
product.

 By using specially formulated reticulated foam plates and metallic
pastes.  Previously, foam plating developed by competitors has proven 
too weak to support the battery’s internal structure.  Power Technology has solved the problem and applied for a patent on the invention. 

Who is Power Technology?
Power Technology, Inc. (PWTC) is an SEC registered, reporting compliant technology company based in Nevada with an R&D department whose members have a 30+ year history of developing numerous patented inventions for practical commercial, industrial and 
government use.  Power Technology has previously patented a 
unique alloy sensor, which produces an electric charge on contact 
with water. The company has also patented a Magnetic Pulse 
Pipeline joining single stage welding process for joining
large oil and gas pipelines.

How could Power Technology have developed this product?
Alvin A. Snaper, whose well-known inventions include the IBM 
Selectric Ball, Tang, the NASA Apollo Photo-Pack, and a line of 
industrial hard coatings used by companies such as Gillette, Boeing, 
TRW, Vermont-American and many others, is Power Technology’s 
vice-president of development and project coordinator for the new 
battery technology. Mr. Snaper has been engaged in scientific 
research for over thirty years and has developed approximately 
600 U.S. and foreign patents.  The creation and acceptance of 
industrial hard coatings led him to design and modify the new 
Power Technology battery.

Benefit to Electric Vehicles:
The typical E-Bike 2x12 sealed lead-acid battery pack can be 
replaced by one that is half the size and weight with no loss 
of capacity.  For example, a utility size Exide 12 volt battery 
weights 23 pounds, while the Power Technology battery 
weights only 7 pounds.
By utilizing a 2x12 Power Technology battery pack, the 
E-Bike’s range on a single 110 volt charge will increase 
as a result of the 32 pound reduction in weight with no 
additional cost to produce over the lead-acid model.  
The battery can be advertised as environmentally
friendly due to the elimination of acid as a component.  
An extended battery warranty can be included at 
no additional cost.

Benefit to the Electric Vehicle Industry:
Vehicle weight coupled with limited driving range 
are two of the major problems the EV industry has faced.  
A Saturn EV-1 lead-acid or nickel-metal hydride battery 
pack weights approximately 1,175 pounds, more than 35% 
of the vehicle’s 2970 pound curb weight.  The nickel-metal 
hydride battery pack costs substantially more to produce 
than lead-acid pack resulting in the nickel-metal hydride 
equipped Saturn retailing for $43,995, some $10,000 more 
than the $33,995 lead-acid pack model.  The next generation 
propulsion system due for the EV-1 late next year will 
substantially reduce the weight of the electric motor 
and related parts resulting in greater driving range 
between battery charges.  Reduction
of battery weight would enhance the driving range even further.

 The Power Technology battery would:
  1. Reduce Saturn’s vehicle weight by almost 600 pounds, increase
driving range by 100% over lead-acid and 50% over nickel-metal hydride packs;
  2. Eliminate the need for a thermal management system thereby reducing
manufacturing cost and weight, and
  3. Be produced for substantially less than nickel-metal hydride,
resulting in more consumer friendly pricing of the Electric Vehicle.
 
The International Forecaster holds options in this Company.
This publication is not a solicitation to buy or sell securities nor
should it be construed as investment advice as to the value of
securities described herein.  This publication is for information
purposes only.  Any forward looking statements involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ dramatically from the results predicted.
Complete information regarding the Company is available without
charge by telephone or written request to the Company.
 
The information is considered reliable, but not 
guaranteed as to accuracy or completeness. 
  
The International Forecaster specifically disclaims 
any liability in connection with this document. 
  
To receive stock tips on a regular basis to help build 
your portfolio send us a blank email to: 
stocknews80@excite.com with subscribe in the subject line.   
   
To be removed send us your email address in the 
subject line to: YOU MUST PUT YOUR EMAIL ADDRESS 
IN THE SUBJECT LINE OR IT WILL NOT BE REMOVED  
stockoftheweek1002@yahoo.com

Thank you


