Spamassassin Daemon
===================


The purpose of this program is to provide a daemonized version of the
spamassassin executable.  The goal is improving throughput performance for
automated mail checking.  This document is a brief synopsis of how spamc/spamd
work, and how to use them effectively.


Spamd
-----

Spamd is the workhorse of the spamc/spamd pair -- it loads an instance of the
spamassassin filters, and then listens as a daemon for incoming requests to
process messages.  By default, spamd listens on port 22874, but this is
specifiable on the command line.  When spamd receives a connection, it spawns a
child to handle the request.  The child will expect to read an email message
from the network socket, which should then be closed for writing on the other
end (so spamd receives an EOF).  spamd will then use SA to rewrite the message,
and dump the processed message back to the socket before closing the
connection.  The child process then dies.  In theory, this child-forking should
be quite efficient, since on most OSes the fork will not actually copy any
memory until the child attempts to write to a memory page, and then only the
dirty page(s) will be copied.  This means the entire perl engine and the SA
regular expressions, etc. will only be loaded once and then be reused by all
the children, saving a lot of overhead.

Spamc
-----

Spamc is the client half of the pair.  It should be used in place of
'spamassassin -P' in scripts to process mail.  It will read the mail from
stdin, and spool it to its connection to spamd, then read the result back and
print it to stdout.  Spamc has extremely low overhead in loading, so it should
be much faster to load than the whole spamassassin program (and a perl VM).

Installation
------------

For now spamc/spamd must be installed separately from the main SpamAssassin
distribution.  Simply enter this directory and 'make', then copy the two
executables to where you want them.  Then, configure your system to run spamd
in the background, and where your mailer invokes 'spamassassin -P' instead
invoke 'spamc'.  It's that easy!

Performance
-----------

So how much faster is this than just using spamassassin -P?  Well, on my 400MHz
K6-2 mail server, spamassassin -P process a 11689 byte message in about 3.36
seconds, spamc/spamd processes the same message in about 0.86 seconds, or about
4 times faster.  With bigger messages, the difference is less pronounced; a
115855 byte message takes about 5 seconds with spamassassin -P, and 2.5 seconds
with spamc/spamd, or about 2 times faster.  However, if many messages are being
processed in parallel, the spamc/spamd combination will likely be much more
efficient, since spamassassin -P has much higher overhead starting up, and will
consume more non-shared memory than will spamc/spamd.  For example, on the
115855 byte message, spamc consumes *no* heap memory (and very little on the
stack), where spamassassin -P uses over 15MB of heap space and a peak of 3.5M.
In processing the 115855 byte message 10 times in parrallel, spamd uses just
22M of heap, with a peak of only 2.5M spamassassin -P would have used 150M
total, and a peak of up to 35M to do this same job.

Bugs
----

There are no known bugs with this setup, but it has been little used to date.
In particular it has only undergone moderate load testing, and only undergone
any testing at all (or compilation for that matter) on Linux systems.  I would
therefore NOT recommend puting this program into a critical production
environment yet, but highly encourage its use in development/testing
environments which would like to use SA for filtering.  If you discover
compilation, runtime, or load-performance bugs, please notify
craig@hughes-family.org so he can work on fixing it.

Network Protocol
----------------

The protocol for communication between spamc/spamd is somewhat HTTP like.  The
conversation looks like:

spamc --> PROCESS SPAMC/1.0
spamc --> --message sent here--

spamd --> SPAMD/1.0 0 EX_OK
spamd --> --processed message sent here--

After each side is done writing, it shuts down its side of the connection.

The first line from spamc is the command for spamd to execute (PROCESS a
message is the command in 1.0) followed by the protocol version

The first line of the response from spamd is the protocol version (note this is
SPAMD here, where it was SPAMC on the other side) followed by a response code
from sysexits.h followed by a response message string which describes the error
if there was one.  If the response code is not 0, then the processed message
will not be sent, and the socket will be closed after the first line is sent.


